---
layout: post
title:  "02: Basic tools, procedures, and electronics"
permalink: /02/
---

### Lab 2- July 1, 2019

Tasks:
#1: Cutting
#2: Sawing
#2: Measuring
#3: Drilling
#4: Joining

SAFETY:
Know how to safel+properly use tools.
Use tools that are working properly and don’t have any (visual) defects
Use the right tools for your task
Dress appropriately+safely
Don't have any both parts in the path of sharp objects (cutting tools)
Secure loose clothes/hair
Use clamps to secure materials

Task #1: Cutting
Materials- Cardboard, box cutters (Image 1), thin sheets of wood
Safety- Retract blade when not using, be careful about slipping, and do not stand in the way/path of the blade.

We first learned how to cut cardboard. We used a ruler to draw straight lines to cut on. To hold the cardboard and ruler in place on the table, we used a clamp called Irwin Quick Grip (Image 2). Then, we did the same with thin sheets of wood.


Task #2: Sawing
Saws-
Ripsaws- Cutting with the grain
Crosscut- Cutting against the grain, smoother
Push saws
Pull saws- Coping, Jeweler’s, Japanese Nokogiri
Coping- Thin, tensioned blades; good for curvy, fine cuts
Hacksaws- Aluminum and plastic

Materials- Saws, clamp, wood

When learning to saw, we were introduced to many different types of saws. I found the pull saws easiest to use (Image 3), and I initially had a lot of difficulty using the push saws (Image 4). After some practice, I found that it was easiest to use when using a very light and relaxed hand. I also used a hacksaw (Image 5) to cut part of a nail. This took a lot of time as the saw was easy to use but the material was hard to cut through. The final type of saw that I used was the scroll saw (Image 6). I used this saw to cut a curvy line which was much harder to control. I think that if I practice more I will get the hang of it.


Task #3: Measuring
Use the tool, a caliper, in Image 7 to measure the width of screws and twist drill bits. To use it, simply clamp the jaws together and set the width to 0. Then, place the screw between the clamps/jaws to see the measurement.

Task #4: Drilling
Materials: hand drill, twist drill bits, screw, drill press, wood

We started off with the hand drill. To use it, insert a twist drill bit and hold down the black button to start drilling. Be careful with the drill, as you will drill through the wood quite quickly, so be aware. Then, we used the drill press for more accurate and perpedicular holes. To use the press, see Video 1. 


Task #4: Joining
Materials- Saw, wood, glue, drill, twist bits, screw, nut, and bolt

After learning all of these skills, we made a sword. We used a self-tapping screw and a drill bit that was slightly larger than the screw. The find the correct size for the screw, we measured the screw and drill bit with a caliper. We then drilled a hole in two pieces of wood and put Titebond wood glue around the holes. Then, we joined the two pieces of wood with a drill using the screw and drill bit. After drilling the screw in, I cut off the excess screw that was poking out of the wood with a hacksaw.
