---
layout: post
title:  "03: Rapid Prototying"
permalink: /03/
---

### Lab 3: 07/02/19

Tasks:
#1- Use Fusion 360 
#2: Create a press-fit assembly kit
#3: Use the laser cutter to print the kit

#1: Use Fusion 360
The first thing that we learned is how to use Fusion 360. I have never used Fusion 360 or learned CAD, so there was a large learning curve for me in using Fusion 360. The first shape that we made is Image 1. The steps for creating this was:
Sketch menu->choose shape (2-point rectangle)
Add the rectangle and set dimensions (press d)
Offset (press o) -> create another rectangle outside of the existing one (Image 2)
Sketch 2 lines that cut the rectangle into equal quarters in construction mode
Leave construction mode and create a line next to each of the existing lines
Mirror the 2 new lines in the sketch pallet (Image 3)
Stop sketch and go to the home button in the top right
Extrude (press e) and select the area that you want to keep and leave the part that you want to cut (Image 4)
Fillet (press) to round the corners (Image 5)
Export the sketch as a DXF

#2: Create a press-fit assembly kit
To create my press-fit assembly kit, I decided to make a square and a circle (Image 6+7). I did so by following similar steps as in Task #1. This was fairly simple, but I had a lot of trouble putting my two shapes in the same file. After a very long time, I found a solution. Since my shapes were in two separate designs, I could go to create->derive and select “add to existing design” and choose the file that I wanted to add my shape to. 



#3: Use the laser cutter to print the kit
The next step was to export my file as a DXF, and then I added the file into a USB. Then, I attached the USB to the laser cutter (Image 8). The steps on our class website for using the laser cutter are:
Turn on Exhaust fan.
Turn on Cooling water.
Turn on both laser switches.
Open RDWorks V8.
Import vector files or bitmaps.
Insert material.
On the laser control panel.
Hit esc (if necessary) and move head to origin.
Hit ORIGIN to set origin.
Adjust laser height (use Z/Y button and side arrows). Check with 6 mm spacer.
Back on the computer, check area with “go scale” button.
Set power.
Hit “Start”.
The shapes that I printed did not have a wide enough kerf, so next time I will increase the size by a few millimeters. 


Challenges:
-Copying shapes into other designs
-Creating more complex shapes
	-I originally wanted to create a shape that was like a cross but with only 3 rectangles 
(with equal angles) instead of four and a circle with kerfs in the center. However, after \	
multiple attempts, I did not know how to use Fusion 360 to do this
		-I struggled with orienting everything the right way and forming the basic form of 
the shape I wanted.
-I spent more time on exploring Fusion 360 during class


Notes:
Unfortunately, I did not use the vinyl cutter, but I look forward to trying it out in the future! Overall, I learned so many new things this week. I have never used Fusion 360 or any other similar program. Using the laser cutter was also a really cool experience! I have never used one or even seen one before, and watching it cut cardboard was mesmerizing. 


July 8th update:
The first thing that we learned about was how to use the ciruclar pattern on Fusion 360. This made everything a lot easier. The purpose of this tool is to mirror a certain shape around a circle at equal angles. This is something that I really struggled with when we were first introduced to Fusion 360. Then, we learned about how transistors work, and we saw example prototypes that used DC motors in different ways. 

Today I worked on my press fit kit. Since we learned how to use “circular pattern” I was able to make the shape that I had previously wanted to. However, I was having a ton of trouble with the laser cutter. The dimensions that I had set were coming out significantly smaller when I tried to print them. In the end, I had to set the diamater of my circle to 400 mm for my shape to come out a reasonable size. I spent the remainder of class struggling with this because my kerf size kept on printing too small. Using the caliper I measured the thickness of the cardboard to be around 4 mm, but I had to adjust my kerf size to multiple times on Fusion 360 because my shape kept on printing too small. In the end, my after adjusting the width of my kerf to 16mm, it printed out a suitable size. However, only one of my kerfs on my shape printed out too small and for some reason the other two were smaller (Image 6). Unfortunately, I did not have the time to keep adjusting my shape since class had already ended when I was able to determine the width to set my kerf to in Fusion 360. 

